---

id: 705
datetime: "2019-09-22 14:16:31 UTC"
title: "Hack a satellite"
draft: false
permalink: "/post/705"

---

So, I had grand plans with #tni. I'd post every day, be on top of my game, etc. One week later, that has not happened. So, I'm just going to start posting things I'm interested in. One article per post, see how it goes.

Wired has this great article about how [The Air Force Will Let Hackers Try to Hijack an Orbiting Satellite](https://www.wired.com/story/air-force-defcon-satellite-hacking/). There's some great quotes in it to say the least.

> “We have to get over our fear of embracing external experts to help us be secure. We are still carrying cybersecurity procedures from the 1990s,”

> Think you know how to hack a satellite or its ground station? Let them know. A select number of researchers whose pitches seem viable will be invited to try out their ideas during a “flat\-sat” phase—essentially a test build comprising all the eventual components—six months before Defcon. That group will once again be culled; the Air Force will fly the winners out to Defcon for a live hacking competition.

> Sure, the satellite\-hacking contest may be a bit of a public relations stunt. But it’s one with both practical value—it’ll make at least one satellite more secure—and relevance. Cooper says that space has become such a vital part of aircraft cybersecurity that the Aviation Village will next year be the Aerospace Village. And the event will also convey a critical message: The Air Force has cool toys, and it’ll let you break them. For the security community, that’s quite an olive branch.

Sounds pretty cool. Apparently they did this with an [F\-15 this year](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-cybersecurity-202/2019/08/14/the-cybersecurity-202-hackers-just-found-serious-vulnerabilities-in-a-u-s-military-fighter-jet/5d53111988e0fa79e5481f68/). So looking forward to see what they plan on doing in the future. Until then, if you're looking to get into talking to satellites from your home, you can looking into building something with [the SatNOGS team](https://satnogs.org/).

/Nat

p\.s. I changed the background and font colors on this site, but didn't fix the blockquote CSS. Will try and fix today.

#satelite #space #security
