---

id: 556
datetime: "2016-03-09 15:35:17 UTC"
title: "My Values?"
draft: false
permalink: "/post/556"

---

A while ago, I read [Mel Chua](https://melchua.com/)'s [Mission Statement](https://web.archive.org/web/20190314004128/http://blog.melchua.com:80/mission/). It's had me thinking the last few weeks as to what are my values? What is my mission statement?

I had redesigned [my website](https://natwelch.com/) at the time to be simpler, and I also had tweaked [my resume](https://resume.natwelch.com/) as I had started a new job. I now had three similar definitions of myself.

On my website, I say:

 > Nat Welch

 > Software Reconnaissance Engineer

 > Promoting communication, creativity and sharing on the Internet.

 > Automating things and building software tools to make maintaining the internet easier.

 > Advocating for transparency, remix culture and open source software.

On my resume I say:

 > Nat Welch

 > Software Reconnaissance Engineer

 > I am a full-stack web developer who enjoys experimenting to find intersections in technology and daily life. I like building beautiful tools and powerful ways for people to share knowledge, advice and experiences.

 > Outside of the tech-world I am an Eagle Scout. I enjoy contributing to open source projects, reading, listening to music and wandering through cities and countrysides.

On Twitter I say:

 > Software Reconnaissance Engineer. Currently: #Hillary2016 Previously: @littlebits, @RecurseCenter SP2'15, @GoogleCloud, @Punchd, @iFixit, LDN, SF, SLO.


I am now thinking about whether my actions and direction match how I describe myself to the internet (and I guess the rest of the world). I have this vision of myself, is it accurate? Do I like this description of myself? How can I change my reality to match better with these descriptions? What do I want in reality that does not currently exist?

Also, how do I explain to others what I think a Software Reconnaissance Engineer is? It started as a joke at Google when I was trying to pick my title, but I love the idea now. I just need a way to verbalize it.

Lots of questions that are on my mind. Just figured I would share.

Happy Wednesday!

/Nat

