---

id: 649
datetime: "2017-04-09 16:11:16 UTC"
title: "2017 Q1 Review"
draft: false
permalink: "/post/649"

---

Hey everyone.

I've been meaning to write this post for a few weeks. It is time for me to recap the first quarter of 2017. Take stock on what I've done so far this year, and what I need to do in the next nine months to keep improving. To keep growing. To keep on making my time in this world worthwhile.

For context, you can read my [2016 year in review post](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/634). Or, if not context, at least a picture of where I was mentally at the beginning of this year, 2017.

## Goals as previously defined.

The big part of this checkup is my goals as defined at the beginning of the year. They are as follows:

 * **Improve physical health**
   * Stretch every morning
   * Successfully complete a 5K
   * Successfully complete a half-marathon
   * Cook eight meals a week (Out of the 21 possible)
   * Record all eating
   * Join some sort of sports team 

 * **Put out content to improve the internet**
   * Take in revenue from one side project
   * Write 200 posts in 2017
   * Maintain a four post per week average on https://writing.natwelch.com
   * Give five talks to groups larger than 10
   * Get 100 websites on Onesie
   * Try to get one #opsparty office hour a week

 * **Grow your brain**
   * Read seventy books
   * Go to four art exhibits, live shows or movies a month
   * Read one non-fiction book a month

 * **Deal with reality**
   * Find an interesting problem to solve with people you like (aka a Job)
   * Dedicate one day a month to dealing with finances
   * Reevaluate all investments, and define a general money strategy and tracking system
   * Define what you want to be doing when you're 40.

So yeah... kind of ambitious. Lets see how I'm doing.

## Improve physical health

I have been stretching on the regular, which has been great. I've started a very simple home yoga routine based off of [Yoga Studio](http://www.yogastudioapp.com/). I have not been running regularly though, but now that the weather is getting nice, I need to get on that.

I have been cooking often, but I haven't been recording my meals well, so I don't actually know how well I'm doing with that. 

I have not joined a sports team.

## Put out content to improve the internet

I am not taking in revenue yet from a side project. 

My [stats page](https://writing.natwelch.com/stats) is apparently broken (whoops...), but I've been posting about once a week. I need to try and get three more posts out... on what I do not know.

I am making a lot of progress giving talks. I gave [a talk at SRECon](https://www.usenix.org/conference/srecon17americas/program/presentation/welch) and a talk at Hack&Tell on Onesie.

Speaking of Onesie, I've got a major bug that I haven't been working on, but I think if I spent an afternoon I could get it to a place I'm ok promoting it more.

For most of January and February, I had one #opsparty office hour a week. I've kind of dropped the ball since then tho. I need to start promoting that again.

## Grow your brain

[I have read nineteen books](https://www.goodreads.com/user_challenges/7156558), out of seventy books for the year. Which means I'm on track! It's almost all been fiction though, so not meeting my non-fiction needs.

Go to four art exhibits, live shows or movies a month:

### January
 
 - Saw La La Land 
 - Whitney Museum of Art
 - Vancouver Contemporary Art Gallery
 - Vancouver Art Gallery

### February

- deYoung Museum
- The Met Breuer
- Metropolitan Museum of Art

### March

- Pop-Up Magazine
- John Wick: Chapter 2
- PAX East
- Legion of Honor
- SRECon
- Field of Vision: Season 4 Launch Night

Averages out to be a little ahead!

## Deal with reality

I [found and started](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/645) a job!

My finance goals were kind of amorphous, but I am dedicating a few hours a month to solving finances. I have done my taxes and am slowly figuring out where I want to put my money. I have not defined a tracking system nor have I reevaluated all of my investments, but I have defined my general investment plan based on my income (take about 35% of paycheck and spread it out across investments).

### Define what you want to be doing when you're 40.

... I have not made a lot of progress on this front. I have really enjoyed the show [Food Wars!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_Wars!:_Shokugeki_no_Soma), and in particular, near the end of season two, the main character is asked to make food that defines who they are.

This has me thinking about the software I write. The reason I am in software is because I enjoy the creative expression of the medium. What am I trying to express with the software I create? Am I expressing that to a wide audience, and am I doing that well? I'd like to think that I could get there before 40, but it's something I'm thinking about, which I think is part of this discussion.


## End

So anyway, I have been pretty happy with Q1. Getting a job is pushing me in the direction of going back towards a normal life. I need to figure out what that means and where I am going, but at least things are progressing.

/Nat

