---

id: 742
datetime: "2024-04-04T10:34:24+0000"
title: "Optimism"
draft: true
permalink: "/post/742"

---

> Everything is ok. 

This is a bit of a mantra for me. If you live on the internet, or just read the news, and are reading this, you will probably think I have got a few screws loose. There's so many things wrong: the economy, wars, death, destruction, the planet is dying, rights are being stripped away, etc.

Horrible things are happening. This is true. And I am not being dismissive of the horrible things that are happening. I think about them constantly. I debate with friends about things we could do. [Run for office](). [Protest](). [Start a commune](). So many more things.

With all of these things though, I need to remind myself to take a breath. I am not good at this. But it's a constant attempt. If I read a horrible story that gets my rage, anxiety or depression elevated. I try and remind myself:

> Everything is ok.

And then often a follow up

> Everything is going to be ok.

"Going to be" is much harder to say, but I am weirdly, an optimist. I believe in humans. A mantra of my work industry is "hope is not a strategy"[^hope] and yet I hope. I believe. I don't have strong affiliations with organized religion, but I do believe in a higher power, so maybe that's where this comes from. Some friends have called me delusional[^sports], but when it comes to human ingenuity, I believe. 

I said in my last iteration of my [manifesto](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/703) that "Humans are inherently good and hilarious." Interestingly, it's the opinion in that post that I explain the least. I think this is partly due to the fact that I have trouble explaining my belief. I am not the type to bet against humanity.

Humans have done horrible things to other humans, the Holocaust, slavery, etc. 

[^hope]: It's usually listed as a [traditional SRE saying](https://sre.google/sre-book/introduction/). The internet also connects it to [James Cameron](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1023787-hope-is-not-a-strategy-luck-is-not-a-factor) and [Rudy Giuliani](https://warroom.armywarcollege.edu/articles/hope-not-strategy-strategy/). I have no idea where it came from originally.

 [^sports]: This is usually due to the sports teams I support:  Tottenham Hotspur F.C., Brooklyn Nets and Red Bulls Junior F1 team (currently the Visa Cash App Racing Bulls). But hey, I also support the Golden State Warriors, so I've got that going for me.
