---

id: 750
datetime: "2024-12-25T00:33:22+0000"
title: "2024: Year in Review"
draft: true
permalink: "/post/750"

---

Hello friends!

Welcome to my fourteenth annual yearly review post! The tradition continues. Yes, I definitely missed 2022 and 2023, but I put up very delayed versions recently. So maybe not truly annual, but what can you do. You can read past years at #yearinreview.

2024 was a weird year. Work was incredibly stressful as the year started with layoffs. We pushed through and had a lot of success, but startup life is exhausting. Some days I definitely miss working for large companies.

Mel started a Masters program at the London School of Economics in September, which also lead to a very unusual Autumn. But more on that below. 

Here we go!

# January & February

- Arrived home from roadtrip
- Trip to Arizona
- Trip to SF

# March

- Trip to Bahamas

# April

- quick trip to London

# May

[Your late spring recap here]

# June

[Your early summer recap here]

# July

[Your mid-summer recap here]

# August

[Your late summer recap here]

# September

[Your early fall recap here]

# October

[Your mid-fall recap here]

# November

[Your late fall recap here]

# December

[Your winter recap here]

# Goals

## How did I do on my 2024 goals?

In [my 2024 goals post](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/731), I set out the following goals:

 - Keep a public culture consumption diary
 - Blog once a month
 - Finish locative garden
 - Make music once a week
 - Go fishing once a month
 - 30 minutes of exercise three times a week
 - Remove all credit card debt
 - Find a monthly in person social thing



Looking back, I'd say my success was mixed. [Will fill in actual progress when writing the final version]

## Goals for 2025

[Your goals for the upcoming year]



# Conclusion

[Your year-end thoughts here]

Lots of love,

/Nat
