---
id: 762
datetime: '2025-08-07T12:50:21+0000'
title: Ten years since RC
draft: true
permalink: /post/762
summary: >-
  Reflecting on the Recurse Center experience a decade later: burnout, recovery,
  and finding happiness in a community of smart, creative people.
---

Ten years ago, I attended [RC](https://recurse.com). I blogged every day, which you can see at #recursecenter.

For specificity, I attended RC Batch Spring 2 2015. I landed in NYC on March 24th, 2015, and the batch started on March 30th. I was there for twelve weeks, leaving on July 3rd, 2015.

When I registered to attend, I was burnt out. I was working in London at Google and it wasn't working out. I liked my coworkers, I found the work interesting, but I was exhausted and sad. After eighteen months I didn't feel like I had friends. I had a director tell me to just get married (I didn't have the heart to tell him I couldn't get anyone to date me). In retrospect, I probably should have stayed another year or two. I would have made more money and probably promoted, but my depression had erased any hope. It was through that lots of conversations with friends convinced me to come back to the states and take some time off. Through those conversations and general research, I learned about what was then Hacker School in NYC.

I tried to quit in August 2014 after a trip back to California for work. My manager, bless his soul, convinced me to stay three more months. He fixed a lot about the job. Other very senior engineers came to London and attempted to improve the team and multiple folks put a lot of effort into making my life better. I will forever be grateful to those folks. It made me realize that it wasn't just me, there were a host of issues and what I was experiencing may have been the result of a lot of things that were out of my control. But I was still burnt out. I was still sad. I was still depressed.

I applied to RC in the three months while I stuck around trying to figure things out. I went to the office on weekends and drew huge multi-whiteboard pros/cons diagrams. I hadn't gotten into RC yet, but I had basically decided to go to leave London.

I don't know how much was in my head, but when I got into RC, I was ready to go. I packed up my life, shipped most of it to my parents in SF, and arrived in NYC. It was snowing when I landed. I had a few friends in NYC, but I ended up staying in an AirBnb for the first month and then a friend of a friend's spare room for two more months. The next twelve weeks were a blur.

It took me about three weeks to recover from burnout. I remember a moment, sometime near the end of the first month where I realized I was happy, and it was a feeling I hadn't felt in a long while. I still was not sure if I liked New York. But I was clearly recovering.

Everyone was so friendly. So smart. So creative. I felt completely out of my depth. Looking back on my blog posts, such as [Day 0 + 1](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/82), [RC Day 1](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/91),  
