---

id: 763
datetime: "2025-06-02T13:29:05+0000"
title: "Kickstarter Update #5"
draft: false
permalink: "/post/763"

---

Well, shit.

Last month I said I would need to write one thousand words a day. I did not do that. My current word count is 15,337, up from last months 14,225. My only saving grace is I did delete one story that made no sense, and was pretty short (around 500 words written), and replace it with something I like a lot so far.

Shout out to Tracy and Carl for the encouraging text messages around writing. Receiving those did get me to write more those days than I probably would have normally.

> Let's do some rounding and say I need to write 55,000 words before July 1st, 2025.

That's what I said [last month](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/761). That's essentially still true, just ~30 days have passed. So now there are 29 days until July 1st. That's almost two thousand words a day... which I'm not going to be able to do. I am going to try and keep to my goal last month of one thousand words a day, and see where I am on July 1st, and evaluate from there.

In terms of distractions last month, I had two guests: my friend Chris from High School visited for five days, and Melissa visited for seven. Both of those were visits were wonderful, but definitely impeded writing. 

The other thing I am incredibly proud of is I performed music in front of people for the first time since... middle school? That was a blast, and now I have another show to perform July 12th. Making, composing and performing music has been a good creative outlet, and it has been inspiring to help me write. It is a competing use of time outside of work, but the positive feedback I received made me more excited to create and share more.

Given that, I think my goal for this week should be to finish one story (i.e. writing not editing) and then share it. Partially because it's a better milestone for me than raw output numbers, but also so I can get some feedback.

Thank you again for your encouraging words of feedback, please keep it coming.

/Nat
