---

id: 764
datetime: "2025-11-06T13:04:10+0000"
title: "How AI is affecting my work"
draft: true
permalink: "/post/764"

---

I have started writing this post a few times, and I decided this morning I need to just get it out there. I use AI at work. A lot.

This was not true six months ago. The tools are improving at a speed that I am impressed and also kind of scared? This week was the first week where I started to worry a bit about how AI is affecting my output, my coworkers output, and our company as a whole. This worry came from just a stark realization of how much code volume we're putting out compared to what we used to put out. Some of that is due to company growth (since January our engineering team has doubled in size), but a lot is also due to tools just getting better.

I don't think I know yet how I feel about all of these changes, so I decided instead I would just talk about the tools that are having a positive impact on my day to work, and how we're adjusting to it. I also want to write this as a snapshot. My good friend @pliable asked me "do you think there have been any significant advances in AI over the past few months?" I responded yes, but also don't have a great snapshot of where I was three months. It's a crazy time, I used to be able to hold opinions about tech and tools for one to two years. Now if I hold them more than three months, I find I am regularly wrong, based on how fast things are changing.

First off, context: I currently work at [Laurel](https://laurel.ai). I am an engineering manager for Infrastructure and Security. Coding is about 20% of my job. We as a company are investing heavily in trying to find ways to make AI useful without it being dangerous or distracting. We have two people dedicated to doing that full time. One of them wrote about his work with ["Force multiplying with AI at Laurel
"](https://kh3dron.net/blog/laurel-case-study/index.html).

## Coding Tools

 * [Cursor](https://cursor.com/)
	 * This is actually the tool I use the most. My workflow is regularly `z $project`, then `git co -b $issue` and then `cursor .`. I don't write long complicated prompts. Instead I usually just click `clear all chats` to give me a clean workspace, then post a log message or stack trace into the chat box and ask "why is this happening." 95% of the time it finds the place the issue is coming from, I then read the code. If I see an easy fix, I make it. If I don't understand, I ask Cursor to suggest a change.
 * Claude Code
	 * I use this for more automated tasks I don't need to think about. I have a directory (currently my desktop :facepalm:) of common prompts I use sitting in plain text files. So I run `cat ~/Desktop/migrate.txt | pbcopy`, then `z $project`, then `git co -b $task` and then `claude` where I paste the prompt. Press enter and let it run until it has questions, where it causes my terminal to beep. I address and let it keep running.

`z`
: This is [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide). It jumps to most used directories.

`git co`
: This is an alias for [git checkout](https://github.com/icco/dotFiles/blob/16292e59e9ffa9b362e5dcd8c915a0fac28d3344/link/gitconfig#L8C7-L8C15).

Example Claude prompt:

```
Upgrade as many of the packages in yarn outdated as possible. After each package upgrade, build, test, lint, make any changes needed, commit and push.

Do not upgrade anything related to Jest. Also do not upgrade reflect-metadata or class-validator.
```


## Analysis Tools




## General Work Tools
