---

id: 768
datetime: "2025-12-19T19:26:21+0000"
title: "2025: Year in Review"
draft: true
permalink: "/post/768"

---

It's that time of year, it's time for #yearinreview!

I've been thinking about what I want to say this year, and then I came across [alanza on lines](https://llllllll.co/t/goals-2026/73619) suggesting a framework for thinking about goals at the end of 2025.

> how was 2025 for you?
>
> what concepts / principles are you thinking about for the new year? how do they relate to the world around you? (locally? globally?)
>
> what old things do you want to shed? what new things would you like to cultivate?
>
> what would you like to accomplish?
>
> do you have a plan for making it happen?
>
> does your year ahead have a ‘theme’ that you’d like to give it?
>
> how about the next three months? the next month? the next week?

I like it, and so I think I'll take a stab at it later in this post. The first bullet shall be my first section though. How was 2025? in a word: shit.

It has some amazing moments, but two facts lowered the mood immensely:

1. the political realities in the US deteriorating
2. the fact that my wife and I were living apart for most of the year

Having worked on two political campaigns that lost to Trump (really like 1.1 if you look at pure hours), I feel pretty weird about watching the rights of fellow citizens destroyed and erased. A strong feeling of depression and lack of wanting to engage, because it's all hopeless (wow, that sentence makes me sound more depressed that I actually am). There were weeks where I was able to completely ignore the news, and weeks where I was deep in it. While many of my friends have been enraged by everything going on, I have found it hard to feel anything besides depression when thinking about the future of my home country.

Add into that, I did not handle Mel being so far away for so long well.

# 2025 in photos

## January

## February

## March

## April

## May

## June

## July

## August

## September

## October

## November

## December


# Goals




# Conclustion
