---

id: 776
datetime: "2026-05-06T18:34:33+0000"
title: "TBD"
draft: true
permalink: "/post/776"

---

https://www.anthropic.com/glasswing


Let's start this as a

Blog post about the end of reliability and security. So?


We've essentially seen. That.


The amount of code being generated is increasing at least 100x. On top of that, the number of zero days. Is increasing drastically. I don't know what the numbers are.


The number of?


Compromised.


Or situations where machines are getting taken advantage of because of these zero days. Is increasing. Because essentially. You don't need a human. To find the problems. Some people are viewing this as a good thing. Because. You can evaluate a system. And have it be? It's audited in a way that increases the.


Uh. You know, finds things that humans might not.


And that is great. For software bugs, things like that. But. The adversarial. Number of adversarial actors will always be higher than the number of. Not adversarial actors. So, essentially, every piece of software is now essentially targeted by a state actor. Which?


At Laurel. Our risk profile already kind of assumed. A state actor.


But. Most apps are not assuming that.


For example.


Where I'm expecting a Resurgence? Of the number of compromised devices. In your own home. Whether that be your personal laptop. All of the iot devices in your house. But that's your washing machine. Or your, I found a faster route, the i-678 South, which saves three minutes with a total of 7.46.



Or.


I don't know the, you know, your washing machine getting hacked, and now all of a sudden? Either acting as an attacker on other systems or exfiltrating. What's going on in your house?


Some of that data. People just don't care about it anymore, right? Like, everyone kind of assumes all of their. Credit card purchases everywhere they go. Everything they say is already being monitored and slurped up by the very least something like Banks or.


Facebook or? You know whatever?


The NSA, you know, pick your face. But. Uh. Now!


Probably going to be increased for Cross County Parkway East toward Mount Vernon. In a way that is then used against you. Constantly. So? Using that as an inlet for? Business takeover Financial ruin. Etc.  None of this is particularly new. But the scale?


And the scope is what's going to get crazy? So?


Previously, it was mostly. High net worth individuals or the elderly? Who are targeted? And high net worth individuals. Uh, had enough, uh, infrastructure around them to protect them, police reported ahead. While the elderly. Uh. Mostly got screwed over and then died.


But we're with things like salt hack? And. The increased number of?


Package managers that are getting compromised.


Uh, just all sorts of things that this is now going to start, affecting literally everyone. On top of that, the systems are now from both a data exfiltration state and a data analysis State capable of.


Even 600 feet merge onto Cross County Parkway. Handling. Uh, all, all the data that's getting slurped and then hurting the people who are taking advantage of County Parkway for three quarters of a mile. Uh, I expect.


Uh, at least one of our employees. Get compromised by a state actor. Within the next six months.


 Whether this is taking advantage. Financial problems that they may be having. Uh. Using something like deep fakes to convince them. That.


They should, uh. You know, do something.


Uh. Under the guise of it's being asked for by someone in power. Um. There's just a lot of possibilities, and uh. Yeah. I think.


We're going to have more and more occurrences of people getting f*****.


Over time. Our defenses will improve to handle this. We saw this with the Windows security problems. In the 90s. We had multiple years where people were regularly compromised.


And then Windows increase so that you know the. Uh, people just a became accustomed to it and also became accustomed to regular security.


Patches. But.


It's going to take a while for that to happen. There's a reason. Why groups like the NSA build large data centers to slurp up all the data? Because they just didn't know what to do with it. And then at some point. They would. Well, now we're at the point where you can analyze all that data, arguably trivially.


And go from there. We've seen the quality of llebs increase use the right two lanes to take Exit nine. As the amount of data that gets put in them increases. So, imagine an LM that's entirely trained. On U.S citizens.


It could proper and. It could properly impersonate. Any citizen and convince another citizen to do something based off of. Uh, that impersonation. That could be, give it a crime. Uh. Could be an act of terrorism. Or.


Uh, leak information about their business. And get past those.


Those systems that currently?


Are built on. Is this a person, or is this a bot? Example of this is so much of our security. Assumes. A piece of knowledge, plus a physical device. Well.


It's pretty easy to compromise your phone. It's been known for. Let's say the last decade, you know, basically since Snowden. Um, there's now enough core. Security vulnerabilities in Linux. Uh. That. Android and iPhone updates can't get out fast enough.


So, you just need the period. Of, you've found the vulnerability. But before it's been patched. Uh, to then take over the phone. And then. Now, the attacker has the piece of Hardware solution. And then, something you know? Is that password, which may come out of your password manager? Or something else.


Someone just has to wait for you to copy paste that password, read the buffer. And you're done! So much of our security assumes that as soon as you get control of the host, you're f*****. And.


That acts of getting control of your host? Is now.


I don't want to say trivial, but becoming easier and easier. And. The. Act of convincing someone to give you control of the host is becoming easier.


You know, I? Recently. Had to tell my parents if someone calls your phone number asking for. Me. That is. Always. An attacker, right? They have gotten that from times when I paid. Our home phone bill. And then ATT or T-Mobile was hacked, and they got that phone number information from.


And so, they're just saying, like, oh. Yeah, was Nathaniel here. And.


You know, my parents being elderly would give that information. I was, like, oh no, he's not here, but his number is. Seven or seven, Etc. And.


That's like a small piece of information. My cell phone number can be found easily online. But.


What if?


They proceeded a hospital. Said. Hey, your uh, your son was? You know that in a car crash? And you know, this is? Uh, you know, the New York City Hospital of your choice? And.


Yeah, we need to know. His insurance information. Or something, I don't know. And previous systems.


Would, uh?


Not be able to appropriately impersonate a human through that. And now, it's getting easier and easier. To mimic. Human speech. Human writing styles. Taking advantage of systems. Uh. That then lets you impersonate.


I don't know, it's nothing good I.


The bugs are increasing. The hacks are increasing.


Reliability is decreasing.


It's gonna be a while before our systems. Are improved. To handle this. And. When it comes to atrophy.


I'm worried that. We. Keep the knowledge on how to protect ourselves.


Right part of our ability? To prove comes from human Ingenuity and building interesting new things.


And. Because our if we lose the ability to build things. That are unique. That don't have the vulnerabilities in the past.


We may.


Doom ourselves.
